Polymorphism & Composition Homework - Quiz

Polymorphism

1 - What does the word 'polymorphism' mean?
Polymorphism is ability to treat an object as more than one type, eg. A person can be a partner, parent, child, sibling, cousin, employee, a supporter, a volunteer etc.


2 - What does it mean when we apply polymorphism to OO design? Give a simple Java example.
Create a single ArrayList for various similar objects and be able to add different things of a similar type. EG. an ArrayList of objects that can connect to a Network would be called IConnect and this items within would be able to connect to said network (Printers, Computers, Servers).


3 - What can we use to implement polymorphism in Java?
We can use abstract classes and interface classes


4 - How many 'forms' can an object take when using polymorphism?
It can take many forms


5 - Give an example of when you could use polymorphism.
Polymorphism may be used to reduce DRY code, by replacing separate instances of similar classes with a super class that can call on the elements of the similar classes within.


Composition

6 - What do we mean by 'composition' in reference to object-oriented programming?
Composition is associating, or allocating objects that a master/original object owns/is composed of.
Like a car HAS an engine and HAS a gear box.

7 - When would you use composition? Provide a simple example in Java.
When you have many various devices, like a Computer, Radio, Speaker, Television but only want to allow the computer to output data using a device such as a printer, monitor or speaker. While the TV, Radio do not.
Creating a behaviour like IOutput will give only the desired objects the behaviours stored within.


8 - What is/are the advantage(s) of using composition?
Composition allows a class to use behaviour from a group of other classes, and makes it possible for that behaviour to change at runtime.
This is an advantage over Inheritance as you can only inherit from one thing and one thing only.

9 - When an object is destroyed, what happens to all the objects it is composed of?
The rest of the objects that the original object owns are destroyed too.
